(1) We can keep track of k list of distances from Aquilegia, where list i denotes for the distance of shortest paths of cities from Aquilegia that inclues i commanders on path.

If Aquilegia has no commandar, You start by finding the shortest path with 0 commanders on path; if it has, you start by finding the shortest path with 1 commanders on path. Now you can only go to cities without commandars.

Assume we start by finding the shortest path with 0 commanders on path with $\alpha$, $\alpha$ = 0 or 1

initialize all $d_i[a]$ to inf for i in {$\alpha$, ..., k} and for a in cities

Using Dijstra's algorithm:
add A to pq
While pq:
    a = pop_min()
    S.add(a)
    for (a,b) in E:
        if b has no demon commander:
            try_to_relax($d_{\alpha}[a], d_{\alpha}[b],d_{ab}$)
            pq.update(a)
        if b has demon commander:
            try_to_relax($d_{\alpha}[a], d_{\alpha + 1}[b],d_{ab}$)
            pq_next.update(b)
pq = pq_next.copy()
pq_next.clear()

cnoble@mit.edu


After running the algorithm, d_{\alpha} has the the distance of shortest paths of cities with alpha commandars on the path.
And consequentially, d_{\alpha+1} has the shortest distances for cities have a demon commandar. Assume on such shortest path to city b, the last travel is from a to b, and since d_{\alpha}[a] is correct, you must have called try_to_relax(d_{\alpha}[a], d_{\alpha + 1}[b],d_ab) and you found the correct d_{\alpha+1}[b]

By induction, suppose now we have the distance of shortest paths of cities from that includes i commandars on path (di), and also have the shortest distances for cities have a demon commandar that includes i+1 commandars on path, we go to next depth

While pq:
    a = pop_min()
    S.add(a)
    for (a,b) in E:
        if b has no demon commander:
            try_to_relax(d_{\i+1}[a], d_{\i+1}[b],d_ab)
            pq.update(a)
        if b has demon commander:
            try_to_relax(d_{\i+1}[a], d_{\i+2 + 1}[b],d_ab)
            pq_next.update(b)
pq = pq_next.copy()
pd.clear()

Runtime: 
since we run Dijstra at most k times, we have O(k(m+blog(n)))




ALTERNATIVE (1)
build a graph that has kn vertices:

$V = {V_{i,j}}$ where i from 1 to n and j from 1 to k

$V_{a,j}$ and $V_{b,j}$ has edge with weight d if and only if there is a path from a to b with weight d, and b has no demon commandar

$V_{a,j}$ and $V_{b,j+1}$ has edge with weight d if and only if there is a path from a to b with weight d, and b has a demon commandar

the number of edges are bounded by km. Because a city has k corresbonding vertices, and a road is "represented" at most k times by the outbounding edges of its vertices.

if Aquilegia has no demon commandar, we want to know the shortest distance of $V_{Iris, k}$. If Aquilegia has a demon commandar, we want to know the shortest distance of $V_{Iris, k-1}$. Either case we can run dijstra on such graph.

Since the number of vertices is bounded by kn and the number of edges is bounded by km, the runtime is...

(2)
If there is a path and a loop, then its done

Run a modified version of BF. Now we want to find the "most profitable path" and the values we iterating over time are the maximum profit for all paths from A to the corresponding city. 

initialze a list for profit p, where p[x] = 0 every city x. 
Initilize Reachable = false

for k in range(n-1):
    for a in range(n):
        for b in a.adjacents:
            if Reachable == false and b == Iris: reachable = True
            p[b] = max(p[b], p[a]+ p_{ab} - c_b)

If reachable == false:
    return false (there is no path from A to Iris)

If p[Iris] >= 500:
    return true (you already find a path)

for a in range(n):
    for b in a.adjacents:
        if p[a] + p_{ab} - c_b > p[b]: return true(you find a positive loop)

# Thoughts
1. Is alternative right?
2. Is original idea right?
3. Is back-way existence help in the way that if the loop happens after Iris city you can still go through the loop and go back to Iris?
