So now let me present another major portfolio insurance strategy which is constant proportion.
CPPI is a dynamical allocation strategy between a risky and riskfree asset. So the way to understand and implement CPPI is quite simple. You start to think about whats the minimum guarantee level, which is floor, and the cushion is the rest value in excess of the floor. Then, you think about how risk-taking you are regarding the cushion, and invest a multiple of the cushion into the risky asset which is SP500, and the rest in risk-free asset, and rebalance every month. So here is an example, you start with portfolio value 1.1, and protected level 0.8, multiple of 2. The cushion is 0.3, and you invest double of the cushion 0.6 in risky asset, and 0.5 in risk-free asset. The intuition behind this is that since you are investing double of the cushion in this period, If the risky asset price fall less by 50%, you will be well above the floor and survive for this period. Next period you have new portfolio value, floor and multiple and you make a next calculation to make sure you survive the next period. 

As you might already figured out the parameters of this model is essentially floor and multiple. Floor determines guaranteed level and cushion, and multiple is like leveraging your cushion and how risk taking you are regarding your cushion and also the upside potential of the portfolio. There are tons of research on different types of floor and multiple, our approach to this model is not trying all of them and simply compare, we start from the very basic version, identify problem, discuss with sponsors and faculties, read papers, to find a way to improve, code for the new version and identify problems again.

So whats the very basic version of CPPI? The floor grows with risk free rate and multiple is a constant value over time. What we found is this really is not working because risk free rate is so much different from equity return. If you let your strategy starting in bull market, the floor is growing too slow and becoming insignificant and you end up investing all in equity market all the time like the top left picture, some papers call it securtized. If you start in bear market like 2000, the floor is growing too high compared with portfolio because the market is falling and you have smaller cushion, smaller investment in equity, and lose the upside potential, some papers call it monetized. The thoughts from this is that floor growing with risk free rate is too brutal force.

So here comes a way to improve, the dynamic floor CPPI which defines floor as a proportion of the historical peak value, for example 70%. What it is really guarantee is actually drawdown, you are not drawing down a lot percentage. The performance is much better, as you can see on the LHS, its performing well either you start in 1991 or 2000, and the floor seems reasonable. The top right graph is exposures, whats really interesting on the bottom right is that if we compare two portfolio one staring 1991 one starting 2000 and set the 2000 value to be 1 their paths almost perfectly match. The caveats of Dynamic Floor is that for one after a drawdown the floor can still a bit high because its a proportion of peak value, so there will still be monetization problem. The second is that CPPI natually implies selling low and buying high which is counterintuitive. So is there a single way to mitigate these two problems in one change? After reading papers there actually is,

The double floor CPPI. Think about this as two stage floor, you have an additional margin that is a floor but can be realeased to cushion to invest in equity market. We start by implementing double floor on dynamic floor which we call dynamic double floor or d2, defining floor, margin being proportion of the peak value, cushion is whats left. you invest in a multiple of cushion, but when the cushion is lost by half, you allocate half of margin to cushion and you have additional risky asset holding compared with not doing so. And the next time the cushion is lost by half again, you allocate half of the current margin to cushion again. So the performance is actually better if you look at top right, the reason behind that is buying some additional equity right after 2008 financial crisis, when the price is low you buy some additional shares to maintain upside potential. Now we are quite satisfied with the floor, and we start to improve the multiple since it is currently only a constant value over time.

A recap of definition, multiple is like leveraging the cushion to invest in risky asset, and we found an intersting implementation to allow the multiple varying over time which is VaR or implied vol methods. So the multiple will be set in the way that the VaR equals to the cushion. If you dont know VaR just keep the intuition that you used some model to have 99% confidence that you will survive above the floor. Here we use VIX as the sp500 vol predictor and assume normal distribution, and we calculate the VaR estimates and the multiple for this period. As you can see the multiple is now high when the market vol estimate to be low and vice versa. The performance is only a bit better, because 1) the original multiple 5 is already very high and 2) we disallow short-selling and borrowing money, so effectively there is not much difference, but we still believe its a model with better risk management interpretation

So we make some comparison of CPPI families, firstly by changing different VaR levels, 1 and 3 percent work well at least in backtesting, 6 and 8 percent perform worse and 10 is too risky. RHS is a comparison of all CPPI strategies, two dotted lines are the benchmarks we trying to compare. As you can see basic version is essentially stock and we chose 80/20 stock cash split because most of other cppi strategies roughly have an average cash holdings of 20% over time. Double floor strategies offer a bit higher sharpe ratio, but whats really important is that strategies especially d2 and d2 implied vol are much smoother compared with the stockcash split and have much less drawdown during crisis. The takeaways of CPPI model is that it is really powerful and has lots of different flavors so we think it is easy to implement, interpret, and individualize
