The next part is an exploration. So CPPI do their job well but customers may not like it because for one they want relatively stable high equity exposures and they do not like cash in their portfolio. After discussing with Brad and other sponsors we explored using commodities instead cash as a complementary asset to equity and we also limit the equity holdings to be above 80% all the time. To maintain 80% equity lower bound is quite simple you just invest 20% in original strategy and 80% in equity, but the tricky thing is to find the right commodity. We have some filtering criteria before backtesting but because of the time limitation we are not going to present here. A warning here is that since we have minumum equity holdings and invest in risky commodities as well, its no longer a insurance any more, but its still something we would like to explore

So here are some performances, Things that really work out well are precious metals. Here we plot three things on the graph, portfolio value, stock benchmark, and a fixed proportion of stock and commodities. The reason we plot the fixed proportion portfolio is to show that the over-performance is coming from the dynamic strategy not from diversification. The top right graph is the exposure over time essentially we only hold precious metals during or after crisis. Commodies that barely works, neck-to-neck are oil, industrial metals and agriculture. 

Commodities that do not work are geneneral commodity indices which matches our previous intuitive filtering results. So some takeaways of CPPI-Investment strategies, it's only an exploration so far but we believe its a reasonable and functional dynamic allocation rule that can maintain high equity exposure and enhance equity performance. But not all commodity works, a good filtering method is analyzing correlation and post-crisis performance.

So now lets welcome tianyi to present Monte Carlo simulation results