Hi everyone, thank you all for coming today, we are MIT Sloan Finance Lab Fidelity team. My name is Songhao Li, my teammates are Fuyu and Tianyi, Our topic is portfolio insurance strategies.

A short introduction about our sponsors, Fidelity Investments, as one of largest fund managers in the world, and the financial solutions team we are working with aim to use quant models to advice customers reaching their goals. We would like to thank Brad, Andrew, Andery, and Michael for helping us going along the research process.

Regarding todays agenda, I will give you the overview of the project and three of us will go deep into the details of the research

So first of all, whats the background and the motivation of the research. So what is portfolio insuance? I will keep the intuition that it is a portfolio that has a minimum guarantee level but also remains upside potential. Here I attach a slide from professor Merton, there are three and the only three ways to manage risk, diversification, hedging and insurance, while the first two are free but insurance come with a price or a fee. 

So whats the motivation of this topic? One reason is probably Covid-19. The volatility we experienced throughout 2020 is a reminder that market downturns are really sometimes unpredictable, so the importance of insurance should be reconsidered. Also with the aging population and early retired investors, there are increasingly more Fidelity customers that do not have stable income sources to naturally hedge against loss in portfolio. The last reason is probably what Prof. Merton and Sponsor team will agree on, there are just limited choice in the market that ends up with high cost, inefficient market, and oppurtunites to expand the market.

So going into our methodology and investment journey, there are essentiall only one methodology that is expoloration. Portfolio insurance is a new topic for both the student team and sponsor team. We agreed to build up the structure from scratch, and to see where are the obstacles and how we can get over that. Gratefully we have two resourceful advisors, sponsors and faculties, who offers great advices and enjoyable meetings during the 4-week research periods. There are actually three parts of the research. We explored option based portfolio insuance strategies as intuitive, conventional, but complex to implement to find the right option or replicate it. We also explored constant proportion portfolio insurance CPPI without the hard work of finding or replicating options, it is easy to implement, interpret, and individualize. We also have monte carlo simulation that we change inputs and sample from historical data, and we give a final comparison and investment recommendation between OBPI and CPPI. So now lets welcome Fuyu to introduce OBPI strategies
